and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business Grow Show I'm your host Sam
Dunning and if you want to check out my
week daily B2B marketing email tips
podcasts playbooks or whenever you're
ready to apply to work with me head over
to Sam dunn.
org today I'm joined by a special
returning guest we've got sir Daryl pril
Daryl welcome to the show sir how you
doing Sam thank you for having me I am
thrilled to be here and damn it I am a
returning guest and uh so I'm excited
about that by the way I mean for those I
have I gave Sam a compliment before we
inser it doesn't his camera look
stunning like that man looks like
quality he is high red look at him he is
like pristine how you keeping Sam doing
good man it's all the lens it's all the
lighting it's it's it's none me but I'm
glad to have you back man likewise
likewise you keep it okay doing well
doing well looking forward to to the
topic because we're going to be
providing something hope for you that's
very timely very relevant and actionable
we're going be chatting about how B2B
marketers B2B exacts can become layoff
proof in the current climate how you can
survive the recession I think it's super
timely especially with so many tech
companies are up against it hearing of
so many friends marketers execs I know
you're the same Daryl that have been
laid off um so hopefully we're going to
share some tips and some ideas is so
that is not going to be an issue for you
if you're watching or tuning in um so
let's get straight to it why do you feel
that right now Daryl so many um B2B tech
companies are laying off marketers and
execs and for introduction I didn't say
actually at the time of recording darl
Daryl's the CMO over at Agora pulse so
he's writing the heat of what's going on
so why do you feel that this is such an
issue right now Dar oh my goodness uh
well uh see you may have noticed Sam I
know you're you're a young lad I've got
lots of white hair you don't that means
I've been yes you're a handsome lad I am
I am on the other side of that hill and
I've been through this cycle this
economic cycle several times before and
it's the classic rise and fall of the
economy I mean in in a simplistic form
when times are good it's growth at all
costs we don't care if you lose money
just go raise another 50 go raise
another 100 million and just keep on
raising money as much as you can growth
growth growth get market share
and then the economy goes in the crapper
and then the first thing every happens
econ goes in the crapper is all your
customers stop buying because they're
unsure they're saving their money and
all of a sudden deals are hard to come
by and all of a sudden you're bleeding
too much money and it becomes incredibly
difficult to go raise more money because
it's too risky so now we go from growth
at all costs to we have to be ibaa
positive we have to physically save
money and often the only way to be eida
positive to actually in for those who
don't know IA earnings before interest
taxes depreciation amortization
basically means you're you're not losing
money right um is is you got to cut your
money you got to cut your spend and
there's only two ways to cut cut money
in in in a especially in a tech company
one is reduce staff salary costs the
second is when it relates to marketing
specifically reduce program spend all
that money you spend on trade shows or
on paper click or you know hir
Consultants Etc so uh and people tend to
do a couple things you see this happen
every single time and if you look around
in the layoffs right now marketers and
this is totally subjective statement are
getting disproportionally hit I mean so
is sales sales and marketing Revenue
people are getting hit because if you're
not driving Revenue then you're an
expense and they're going to boot you
out of there um but marketers get hit
first because they start not with people
nobody likes to let people go they start
with reducing the program and the
budgets and if I have a less if I have a
smaller budget I don't need the same
size marketing team so I'll let them go
too and then if that doesn't stop the
bleeding now I'm going into sales and
everything else but that's why it is
it's as simple as that if everybody
would just start spending money again
really nilly then layoffs would stop and
the funny part is I actually told my
team over a year ago I bet you was like
15 months ago we were it was uh early
summer of 2022 when we had a staff
meeting my marketing team I had 40
people roughly and I said we're about to
hit a really rough spot in the economy
if I were you I would get your LinkedIn
profile up to shape I would make sure
your resume is up to shape I would make
sure you're networking like crazy um
because you never know what's going to
happen then they're like well are you
saying DL there's layoffs coming not
saying that there are no layoffs coming
I've just been here before and then they
were all scared I said well don't be
scared you should always be this way
anyway you should be ready for it but
the reality is it I you know I saw it
it's happening it sucks and I am seeing
so many incredible incredible people on
the market now simply because of layoffs
nothing to do with them or their
performance couple quick ones before we
dive into kind of what execs and
marketers in the B2B space can do to
combat this but in your opinion what do
you think was the main cause because I
know damn well as well come 2020 2021
funding was being given out like crazy
yep B tech companies especially with
splashing cash like mad on all sorts
events sponsorships ad spend whatever it
might be influences Yas these days when
you talk to these same companies they're
so much tighter with their cash l so
with what's going on what do you think
was the main Tipping
Point I mean it was the main tipping
jeez there there's a there's a how do I
put this there's a delay right so
inflation you know postco you know you
had the huge issue of uh inflation
started going crazy around the road
there was no
um how I put this there was no supplies
that's so people started they weren't
able to meet the the orders so then
prices started going up and it just
Cycles price PR goes up but nobody wants
to raise their prices because they'll
lose their customers and what you end up
happening is you have a couple things
happen you have one um a
realization that in any one category
pick a category maybe it's sales
engagement you have or maybe it's CRM
right um or maybe it's Finance or maybe
it's HR pick any kind of category you
have one or two leaders so like in CRM
you kind of have Salesforce and you then
you might have HubSpot right um in sales
engagement you might have Outreach you
might sales law you get the idea there's
always two category leers in in soda
Cola there's Coke and there's Pepsi and
and then there's everybody else
so suddenly when the economy gets
uncertain you have people pulling back
the knobs and and reducing their
spending a little bit and then people
are trying to see well is this just
momentary is this a is it going to
rebound so it takes like six months to
figure out oh this is a long-term thing
or short-term blip the next thing you
have is then they have to go what do I
need to do to to to reduce spend what
tends to happen is they tend to do it
they should know better they should do
one big cut at once we're going to cut
30% of the workforce and instead they do
they do the salami technique we're gonna
cut 5 percent then we're going to cut 5
percent then we're gonna cut 5 perc then
we're cut 5 per. and that's what you see
I saw a friend of mine the other day
sent me a a note she says it happened I
got laid off I made it to the fourth
round that's a problem when they make it
to the fourth round the company was
irresponsible but nobody likes to let
people go then for those same companies
that raised a boatload of money now the
venture capitalist the VCS the investors
are exerting massive massive massive
pressure to return to ea. posi they're
trying to protect their portfolio so
that's what's happening flows down
you see it in the CEOs and they're
they're applying it down it you that's
why it takes time that's why I called
this 15 months ago you could see it was
going to happen but it takes time
because they're always doing just you
know is this enough is this enough is
this enough
it is what it is you've been on both
sides of it right because you're a CMO
um like we often especially scrolling in
the LinkedIn feed we'll see straight
from the execs and of course I feel for
them especially marketers sellers
whatever their role is and they've been
at the front end of it because they've
been in a round of layoffs of course we
sympathize with them but at the same
time what is what is it like as an exec
that's actually got to do the firing
I've got to be involved in the layoffs
because I guess a couple things one
emotionally but then two
do do companies typically give these
employees kind of big payouts or is it a
case of they just get harsh cut because
I'm trying to look at it from both
angles so I'm not just saying yeah it's
really harsh on the exact on sorry on
the um the marketer or the seller
whatever the role that's been fir
individual what's yeah what's like for
the person that's doing the firing and
the company like what's the knock on
effect to them is actually helping them
in the short term or they having to do a
bunch of payouts for redundancies and
things like that and then they're going
to have to get back in the cash FL
positive okay no problem uh I can so
obviously everybody handles it a little
bit differently if this is your first
time doing it or second time doing it it
be it's it's it is stressful for someone
who's doing the laying off of your
employee is anxiety inducing you're
going to lose sleep you're going to talk
to your peers and say how have you done
it do you have any pro tips you're going
to go to HR and say you know what's the
process and candidly I have rarely seen
HR do this well I think I I I I to my
friends I said I've had one good HR
person in my entire career and for all
those HR professionals I saying I'm
sorry but it's true you give us crap
advice you give us like you know prep us
tell us if they ask you this question
this is what you do this is the order of
events this is how you do it I'm going
to you know I'm HR person let me deliver
you know the key points so you get in
make the news and you can get out you
know we need to have witnesses right
because you know we don't want to be
sued and have things that are
misrepresented the whole process needs
to be understood HR could do a much
better job on that and they don't so
that's the first part if I'm giving you
any coaching if you lay off people make
sure you have a complete FAQ from your
key people vet it with your CFO vet it
with your CEO on exactly the process
exactly the answers to the questions you
can anticipate Etc that's the first part
that will give you some comfort second
part is a responsible manager would have
done like what I did 15 months ago which
is said you should be prepared you know
if it ever comes down it's not because
of you because I love you I like you I
respect you you're talented you're
gifted that's why you're on my team if I
had a problem with you I would have
pipped you or let you go if you're here
you're capable you're good but you know
economics are economics layoffs are
layoffs and if you we have to let people
go you know you're you're at risk just
like I'm at risk and I even tell that to
people I said I'm actually somewhat more
at risk because my salar is more than
your salary so there you go but you prep
them so there's no surprises so then
when it finally happens you just do with
compassion it sounds stupid and how I
tend to do do it is I I do a onew uh
punch like partner with HR and I'll
simply say and the call comes on I'll
say something the effect of as you know
you know this I said if you're seeing me
and HR here you kind of know what's
happening as you know the econom Is Not
Great you know we're we're we're we're
missing our numbers we're bleeding cash
and unfortunately we have to make some
cuts and unfortunately you're impacted
this is nothing personal this is just a
business decisions for the survival of
the company based on that I'm going to
hand it over to HR they're going to walk
you through your package your Severance
with try to be fair if you have any
other questions just let me know at that
point in time depending on your company
I would actually leave and let the HR
person do it or I would stay there but I
would also say to them I would say and
you're GNA have questions um you know
why was it me what have you uh it wasn't
you but you're going to think about this
you're going to process it call me after
call me later today call me tomorrow
call me next week I'll answer all your
questions but I can assure you it wasn't
used performance and they'll 99 times
out 100 they'll all go yeah I know
because they they know it's coming they
know that they're at risk and they
understand it's not personal if you set
the stage um the challenge you have when
you're doing this is what you just
alluded to is the package that's where
it gets crazy and I you know to gorals
we're a Paris based European company
right so the differences between Europe
and North America or differen is even
between Canada where I am in the US are
staggering I've see too many of my
American friends say boom I got laid off
and I got one week Severance I've had
multiple CMOS come to me get lay off
CMOS people with Decades of experience
and say they got like two week Severance
and I'm like are you serious you should
be getting like six months Severance so
um that's the Staggering point the US is
very much black and white boom you're
gone so if you're American you should
definitely always have a rainy day fund
to fund yourself at least for three
months in anticipation of that ever
happening Canada is a little better it
tends to be kind of one week per year
maybe maximum you know one to two months
uh Europe is crazy crazy it's it's it's
like mindblowing I'll give you a story
there in a second but uh yet it really
varies in in France this is how it works
in France I'm not making this up so if
I'm gonna lay you off in France I'm G to
send you a registered letter that says
uh we're thinking of doing layoffs and
you're gonna you're potentially GNA be
impacted
again now cut to the chase there's a
good chance that we already know it's
going to happen but this is the process
we have to follow we're going to meet in
our offices in one week's time so now
for the next week the employees freaking
out but this is the process you have to
follow now you meet live and in person
you say yep here's the numbers we're
thinking of letting you go um so now
we've talked about it live one-on-one
you had the letter the notification now
we' talked about it live we'll let you
know where our decision in 48 hours I'm
not making this up folks so another two
days goes by and then you meet and
they're like okay yes we're letting you
go it's a layoff and in France and in
Germany and other places I have to give
you a notice period not a severance a
notice period so I'm GNA let you go in
one month two month three months and
then after that I'm Gonna Give You
severance pay so like in France let
somebody what contrast between us and EU
and France huge huge difference never
realized that no it's staggering so yeah
for always ever r a day fund kids uh
you'll because I got hammered I got
hammered I got laid off back in 2006
when I was a a CMO and I got uh I I was
working for an American company I was in
a Canadian office and they let me go
with no severance which is illegal in
Canada you can't do that but they were
determined it was no severance and uh so
there I was I had two young kids laid
off I didn't have sufficient rainy day
funds and I had no severance welcome to
life that mistake never happened again
and for the record I sued their sorry
asses and four years later I got my
Severance so there you
go got it no I appreciate you openly
sharing that man I didn't realize kind
of the US was so different to EU OB me
being in the UK I'm only familiar with
what's going on with me yeah and the
rest of my team and colleagues and stuff
so it's yeah appreciate kind of giving
us insights there so we G on a bit off
tangent but I think that's useful to set
the scene and also useful for anyone
tuning in that doesn't understand what's
going on in the wide organization to
give some perspective um because I find
it quite useful as
well why is it that when things get
rough that nearly always marketing gets
the cut gets the snip first well like we
talked about it's because the budget
people think about it it's it's it's
personal right okay
so imagine you Sam you have to let me go
and you have two pots you have I can let
Daryl go because Daryl's got a salary
and that'll save X dollar but that means
I have to have that conversation with
him and it's he's going to look at I'm
gonna look at you Sam with my puppy dog
eyes I'm G do I might shed a tear I I
might do this and you have to do this
you have to break the news and I'm like
can you tell my wife and my dog please
because I'm I'm a mess and this I'm I'm
making fun here folks but this is the re
this is the truth right this is how
people react or or I could say sam
there's the budget there's a program
spin all right so now you don't have to
let me go you can just reduce the budget
what are you going to do you're going to
say I'm reducing the budget the reality
is that's a mistake uh so that's why
marketing gets hit first the rest of the
organization is just staff unless you're
a manufacturing entity where you have
assets like presses and whatnot mailling
machines Etc the rest of the
organization just people cost that's it
marketing's got you know 10 15 20% of
the overall revenues for for but for
campaigns For Those ads for those trade
shows for the Billboards and so they cut
there first that's why marketing always
gets hits and then once they cut that
then they realize oh we cut the
program spend but we we still have the
people cost but the people aren't busy
anymore because they don't have enough
money to spend to do the programs so now
we have to reduce marketing and then
what happens is they realize oh we
did that and now there's not enough
leads coming in so now we we we have too
many sales reps so now we need to put
the pressure in the sales reps and say
you need to do new more activity and you
need to do more outbound calling but
they've been living at the trough of
inbound so they're not good at doing
outbound so then you know three months
later like okay we have to cut sales and
welcome to revenue 101 the last thing
I'll say about why we're here I meant
meant to mention this it's because too
many companies today are solely focused
on new logo acquisition and the reality
is when you're in this economy and you
can look at people who are doing well
companies are doing well in this economy
are not doing well because they continue
to get new logos they're doing well
because they shift their revenue mix
from new logos being really high in the
good times to customer expansion being
really high in the bad times so if you
don't have anything in your price list
that you can upsell or cross sell then
you're screwed so my advice to you if
you're a Founder you're in leadership
you have you're in charge of the product
road map is create things now that can
be upsold or cross sold so that you can
then expand your install base um and
survive these times that's a rule number
that's like the most important takeaway
for anybody in Tech good man good man so
we've set the scene quite well now if
anyone tuning in is a marketer is
someone that's in an organization and
they're thinking this is scared the
hell out of
me I never want this to happen to me I
want to make sure that my role whether I
stay here whether I move on to another
organization is going to be pretty
secure in your opinion what are some of
the top things and I'll share some of my
thoughts as well what are some of the
top things that you can do let's look at
it from perhaps a marketing EXA point of
view to make sure that your position's
going to be safe for the longer term
okay so I I'll preface the whole I'll
give you the answer when I'll preface
everything by saying you can do all this
and still be shot you know um so but
what you'll be is you'll instead of
being shot in the first round You' be
shot in the fourth round like my friend
was so that's all it is so there you go
okay if you go back to the 15 months I I
gave my team what were the things they
could have done then right when you see
you can see it coming on the horizon
dark dark clouds in the sky and it's
coming towards you all right so then the
B couple thing is uh go back revisit
your LinkedIn profile all right
reoptimize it if you don't have a great
LinkedIn profile then physically go and
like I always tell the story I bought a
a book it's still sold on Amazon an
ebook cost like 10 bucks it was called
how to write a killer LinkedIn profile
and the reason you do that is because
you want to stand out from the crowd
whenever you're looking for a job second
reason you do that is you want to get
found by recruiters when they're looking
to find another person right so if you
because if you're at risk they could
find you and say but this is other
company over here much safer industry
and you could apply you know just shift
careers shift companies so you want to
do that second thing is uh you want to
start building your network so if you've
been kind of like ah I really haven't
had time to build my network because
I've been busy you can get like um you
hang out with Sam Dunning because he
knows everybody in Industry just go to
his connections and and follow them all
and then send Sam gobs of money and
gifts to be his buddy so but building
the network is huge third is make your
yourself visible because again if
they're looking at um where do I cut
what you need to understand today is one
of the biggest way to sell anymore is
not through traditional prospecting or
traditional demand gen like paper clip
it's all it's it's actually all through
word of mouth and referral word of mouth
and referral happens by sharing great
content and like holy smokes I I what I
hear from me from people all the time is
like I see you all the time I my
LinkedIn I see you you know I see you
non-stop so if and if I'm waving the
company flag hey it's derl Pro here CMO
at a gorole it's the world's best social
media platform let me tell you today
about whatever if they see me waving the
company flag they're less likely to let
me go they let somebody else go because
I'm building brand I'm building
awareness I'm building referral so
that's that's the first part but the
good news here is if you're adding value
that also makes you very attractive to
the next Pro prospective employer so
this is a win-win that's when the clouds
are dark uh as it's getting closer maybe
more urgent what I would strongly
suggest you do is communicate all the
time to the key state orders this is
what I'm working on this is the impact
we had um is there anything else you
want me to do we tend to get really busy
in our day-to-day tasks we don't
communicate you have to be proactive
intentional weekly summaries this is
what we accomplish this week this is
what's happening next week yada yada y
include people in the decisions if they
feel like you're really committed and
you're working hard because they can see
it because they're talking to you and
they're hearing you you're less likely
to be in The Chopping Block next thing
you need to do is you need to measure
yourself so you need to actually you
need to do the math it says because I
did this this resulted in this much
pipeline or this many closed deals all
right and you need to basically justify
your position so if you can just if you
simply say well made we made a lot of
awareness and therefore we have more
website traffic so I as assume I'm doing
great you're G to get shot whereas if
you can say no I can show you exactly
this is how much pipeline I wrode I I
create it from you know prospecting or
from payperclick or what have you and
this is how many deals closed and this
is the revenue we spent $ 10,000 we
generated $40,000 right if you do that
nice little dashboard and consult that
often share the numbers with them often
often often often you are not going to
be let go because basically what you're
doing is you're making a a business case
for yourself you're being proactive
you're being intentional about your
communication to make sure they know you
exist and you're a great team player and
you're good for the company better than
your peers remember it's a classic if a
bear is chasing me I don't need to be
fastest runner I need to be faster than
you so if you communicate more it's the
same analogy the last thing measure and
show them the impact you're having
that's it if you still get killed after
that you did everything right that's
solid that's solid there's not much I
can add to that really so recap those
five optimize your LinkedIn profile
build start building a network so if
does hit the pan or you needs to
call on your peers you've got kind of a
solid Community there that you can call
upon you can ask a favor because you've
already possibly given them a favor or
help them out in the past number three
make yourself visible by sharing content
whether that's LinkedIn podcast YouTube
another channel that your prospects are
potentially seeing you active on
communicate regularly with your
stakeholders make sure you're share ing
what's going on what's Happening the
updates and
measure proof of results with numbers
actual impact on Revenue um probably one
of the most important ones the only
things I could add to that really is
bringing new ideas to the table I.E if
you've tested a new channel perhaps in
the marketing perspective and you've
perhaps just been doing it on the
sideline or something like that and it's
been working well so you think look
let's I don't know start an email list
or let's start a LinkedIn ser series or
a little podcast or something like that
I've come up with an idea I've actually
lined up 10 guests that fit our ideal
client profile I'm ready to bring them
on to the show are you happy for us to
kind of brand this through our company
something like that because if you can
bring these kind of ideas that are
outside the box but are likewise quite
low cost to produce and you've already
done some of the leg work off your own
back if you're showing leadership that
they and think this guy actually or
this girl actually knows what they're
doing um they've brought ideas that are
probably going to build our brand and
drivve some pipeline over time then
let's they're they're a real big asset
um and they also know you could probably
do that by yourself like they want to
keep you um and apart from that learning
like one of the biggest things I can add
is learning on the side so what I mean
by that is rather than just doing your
ninetto five start something yourself
whether that's a marketing experiment
that's where I was goingon to go next
get a side hustle get a side hustle yes
we'll go into that as well because I
think there's a deeper conversation
around side hustles and I know some
organizations allow and some don't but
we'll talk about them regardless um but
yeah we talk about this in a bit but
yeah learning on the side like one of
the most impactful I've things I've done
as a marketer as a business owner is run
this podcast interview people that are
smarter than me in certain departments
and steal their ideas and see what works
see what doesn't for me listen to audio
books I'm a terrible reader so I consume
things like podcasts or audio books in
the car so instead of listening to radio
I can just get new ideas new thoughts
new insights and then put them into play
so just take just doing a little bit
extra than what's involved in your 9
to-5 has quite a big impact has a lot
more impact than you think really huge
and and the and the the one overriding
thing to do everything we've just talked
about here is you have to be intentional
about making time to do it because the
number one reason you don't do it is
because you don't have time you're too
busy you're too busy and that's that's
an absolute killer all right time block
if you have to time in the morning time
in the afternoon whatever whether it be
to create content to be on social to
have a meeting with a long lost
acquaintance just to catch up you got to
be intentional so it's an investment in
yourself and it's investment in your own
job security and uh trust me it's a lot
better to do that than to have a
conversation with a life partner to say
yeah we I just got laid off and now we
got a
scramble just before we get into kind of
side hustles and stuff like that what
are your thoughts on
expanding the sect
that you specialize in so to give you
some context like what I saw a lot when
the layoff start first started happening
and I'd see loads of people posting on
LinkedIn that they're open to work was a
lot of kind of field
marketers um I think they're called
Community marketers and events marketers
those were some of the big jobs that I
saw get cut so I guess my question to
you is should marketers look to be less
specialist I in one sector like that and
more founded in terms of their expertise
I.E they might have some knowledge in
SEO they might have some knowledge in
website optimization copywriting um paid
ads um they might have a general idea of
all these things rather than just lock
themsel into one area is that more
valuable or not so it's interesting
right so Specialists will earn more
money than a generalist will so you hear
me out folks a specialist will earn more
money than a generalist will um but a
specialist will hit a ceiling they'll
only be to go so far um what's a good
example of that somebody who's like an
SDR Rockstar can become an SDR manager
maybe a director of sdrs um they're a
specialist but boom that's as far as
they're going to go they're never going
to be it's rare there'll be a VP of
sales with only SDR experience so the
beauty of doing what Sam just said which
is
expanding is it actually will pay huge
dividends for you long term in your
career because then if you're a
generalist a couple happen One You're
Building more skills two you can
actually have more intelligent
conversations with your colleagues with
your peers with management because now
you have context you have experience you
have storytelling you have reference
points of you have stats you have data
you have examples all that wonderful
stuff three it gives you a better career
uh trajectory because now you can go
beyond the SDR manager to become you
know head of sales because you've done
sdrs you've done sales you've done
marketing you've done payperclick you
know whatever it might be um you can
become a revenue person you can become a
growth person you become a GTM expert
whatever it might be so the generalist
thing is good because if you're
desperate for money or some side hustles
then you're basically looking for you
know I'll do anything you tell me so it
opens it up the the possibilities for
you um but yeah it also at the same time
it does give you bigger career
trajectories so it's a good thing to do
I think you should do it you know like I
always look at the one thing I'll use an
example of of you know expanding I look
at the role of the cro the chief Revenue
officer and I I know how anybody can be
a chief Revenue officer who hasn't done
sales and marketing I just don't know
how you can do it you need both skills
and ideally customer success two all
three skills if I only did one role I'm
gonna fail as a cro so expanding that
footprint and sometimes that means in
your career taking an intentional DeTour
for the next two years I'm going to go
over here and do this role and then I'm
going to come back because now I've got
that so absolutely it's a an investment
in yourself an investment in your career
but it it does mean it it could also be
a distraction so you know be intentional
is really my advice to you yeah smart
and you've done both right haven't you
you've been a c you've been a CMO so
you've
seen Carri a bag the whole nine yards
yes I've done both the white hair been
around long long
time good man so let's get to side
hustles um I suppose first and foremost
do you think that in the B2B space
because that's what we're focused on
sellers marketers is it a smart idea to
have one is it distraction is it useful
in case hits the fan like what are
your thoughts yeah great question um yes
I think it's incredibly smart to have
one you touched on it and it's a great
point you absolutely need to make sure
it's a it's allowed at your company the
cult the culture of the company allows
it in gor
aults tons of us have side hustles and
it's and you know and and I think that's
the modern day you that's something you
can ask about before you join a company
you can like talk to I I don't know if
I'd ask my you know the the hiring
manager hey can I have a side hustle
that may but I would reach out to some
of the other call the other employees in
the company and say What's the culture
like do the allowed side hustles and
that way you can you'll know um Gul
we're fine with that because they we
treat you like adults just do your day
job and after that I don't care what you
do if you're doing something in the
evenings or on weekends that makes you
extra money hey more power to you
because ultimately this is how we view
it you're learning skills that you're
going to bring back to us which is a
win-win right you're making more money
so you're going to keep your day job
plus you got this extra hustle uh Etc
but the minute that becomes a
distraction your side hustle becomes
more important than your day job that's
we're going to Bally warn you then we
let you go just you know I think you
should do it answer your question uh and
the reason I think you should do it is
because you may find out that you
actually like doing these s hustles more
than your main job too many people have
become solar preneurs uh because of that
um you may find that the side hustle
outpaces your your day job as far as
income goes that's great but in the case
of a layoff at least you've got an
alternative uh Revenue stream right so
like I I do slide hustles today I do I
do video production I do event hosting I
do moderation I do voiceover work um I
can imagine you doing voiceover work
actually K so there you go got the right
time for it I appreciate that so that
that's it doesn't affect my day job but
and I don't now for me I don't invest a
ton of time seeking it out it kind of
comes to me but you know everybody you
have to build a a book of business too
so definitely do it I but if you I want
to be clear here if you choose not to
because you're prioritizing say family
time or relationships over that that's
okay right it's you don't have to but if
you're worried about the layoff having a
few more pokers in the fire really is
advantageous in case you do get impacted
by a reduction in staff yeah it's one of
those things right isn't it it's not
going to be for everyone and it's
something you start quite small ie on
LinkedIn you make a lead magnet and you
charge like 10 bucks for this in-depth
detailed PDF guide or video series
that's focused on your area of expertise
maybe that's video production maybe
that's SEO maybe that's a specific
element of paid ads whatever the heck it
is you slowly build it out charge people
10 20 bucks whatever build out your
email list and then you gradually ramp
it up and maybe build other products of
services off the back of it that's just
one idea exactly you could do a podcast
you could do a video series whatever um
and then you can whil you're doing it
you learn at the same time because
you're kind of learning kind of how to
set this up how to sell stuff how to
build an audience how to build an email
list how to build a following on
LinkedIn perhaps um you realize if you
actually like it or if it's just
consuming time you're not making any
cash and need to move on something else
and like I say it might just be that you
decide you want to spend well time your
family and focus on your main job or it
might decide that this thing gets big it
blows up and you want to eventually
start your own biz so I think there's
only good that can come with it from my
experience anyway agreed and learning so
yeah like you say check check with your
company because you don't want to get
yourself fired for no reason um all
right we've covered some good ground I
think the only other thing I want to
kind of touch on is if there's anything
else that we've not discuss really that
you think marketers perhaps or Founders
should be doubling down on um just to
make sure that they're going to be all
good through the ups and downs that are
going to be no doubt ahead of them the
one thing that's it's hot right now and
and it comes especially comes to
doubling down is the whole concept of
goto Market GTM now I will tell you this
when I say GTM to most people they all
go yep and they they not their head and
they they give me that knowing look like
they're in on it and they know what's
going on but the reality is what they're
really doing is they they don't know
what it means and they're simply saying
in their mind they're saying okay I have
a sales Plan before now I'm going to
have a GTM plan but it's it's just a
sales plan with another
acronym or I have a marketing plan this
is my strategy to drive you know new
demand or new awareness and I'm going to
change the word marketing to GTM I have
a GTM plan but it's still just a
marketing plan that's not what GTM is
GTM is is a framework it's a framework
to solve business problems and and to me
it's it's it's like the last time in the
revenue world we had a framework that
everybody that changed the way we did
things and unified all the revenue
contributor
was when serious decisions launched the
demand waterfall for the first time ever
we had this concept of what an mql was
what an SQL was an S was Etc and that
evolved over time but before that we had
no framework that United us gtm's the
same way gtm's about saying what's the
problem we're trying to solve not what's
your sales plan not what's your
marketing plan what's the company's
problem and you know I I'll reference
GTM partners.com and their homepage they
had like 15 common problems right there
you can see it it may be that you you
know we're like the last one invited to
a deal or we're always being reactive as
opposed to proactive when it comes to
you know product road map and direction
or what have you or we have a huge turn
problem you know the list goes on so
those are the problems that are
affecting the company then you work
backwards you say okay so what are the
Motions that we can use to address the
problem and there's six motions that
they've defined there could be more but
you know there's an outbound motion if
you're a sales there's an inbound motion
you're marketing there's a partner
motion there's an event motion there's a
product Le motion and there's a
community motion I think those are the
six and what you do is you're going to
say okay so then to solve that problem
we need a combination of one or more of
those motions and then you break down
what the actual tactics are in those
motions to solve that problem so it
really gives you focus and a structure
in a shared framework if I am today
trying to navigate my way out of this
economic situation protect my job not
get laid off um or expand my my skill
set may can do more slide hustles become
more reg generalist I would double down
on GTM it's a shared framework it gets
everybody at the table who's in charge
of Revenue talking about it it elevates
your position in the company because
you're being more strategic now you're
not talking about open rates and emails
you're talking about the
issues that's what I would do GTM lots
of books out there I mentioned GTM
partners.com I know there's lots of
communities pavilion's got a uh a GTM
practice rev genius has got a GTM
practice you can buy uh the book called
move written by sangr vajre and Brian
Brown um and just to familiarize
yourself with it lot a great free
research at GTM partners.com uh I'm
advocating for everybody here in the
world but that's what I would do I would
get that knowledge there would use that
framework start those conversations it
would Elevate yourself and probably stop
you from being laid off nice sounds like
some good learning D very much
appreciate your thoughts sir enjoyed the
conversation enjoyed the back and forth
as always so appreciate you coming back
on and with that said please do tell us
more about how everyone tuning in can
learn from you connect with you or
anything you want to send their way the
usual call to action well folks by now
if you haven't figured it out already
I'm on LinkedIn you can reach me at
LinkedIn in darl prail so please do that
you can also email me me darl pra.com um
and of course if you need a great social
media platform check out agoral AG
gor.com you're GNA love it because hey
social media is the number one channel
for all revenu driven people not
pay-per-click not events so if you don't
have a social media plan you're screwed
but if you do you need to administer it
gor.com Sam as usual you're amazing
thank you so much for having me no
worries dude always a pleasure and only
occasionally a chore thank thank you
kind that one I like it that's good SL
slight slight Twist on H classic but um
yeah thanks once again as always if you
enjoyed today's episode a quick rating
or Rie on your podcast Channel goes a
long way off on YouTube as subscribe
helps us grow and we'll catch you on the
next one for more nobs actionable B2B
marketing tips to grow your business
hopefully grow your Revenue catch you
soon